= Flags Column

A Rails3 gem that extends ActiveRecord to provide enhanced access
to bit-flagged columns.


== Basic Usage

Prepare your model:

  class AddVisibleToFlagsToPosts < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      add_column :posts, :visible_to, :integer
    end

    def self.down
      remove_column :posts, :visible_to
    end
  end

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    # Mark a column as a bit-flagged integer,
    # provide the flag names and their bit positions,
    # and optionally set one or more default flags.
    #
    flags_column :visible_to,
                 { :admins => 0, :members => 1, :friends => 2 },
                 :initial => [:members, :friends],
                 :accessible => true

  end

Run `rails console`:

  >> Post.flagged_column_names
  => [:visible_to]

  >> Post.flagged_columns
  => {:visible_to=>{:flags=>{:admins=>0, :members=>1, :friends=>2}, :initial=>[:members, :friends]}

  >> Post.visible_to_flags
  => [:members, :admins, :friends]

  >> Post.visible_to_bit_flags
  => {:admins=>1, :members=>2, :friends=>4}

  >> Post.visible_to_default_mask
  => 6

  >> Post.mask_visible_to(:friends, :admins)
  => 5

  >> Post.unmask_visible_to(3)
  => [:admins, :members]

  >> p = Post.new
  => #<Post id: nil, title: nil, body: nil, visible_to: 6, ...>

  >> p.visible_to
  => 6

  >> p.visible_to_flags
  => [:members, :friends]

  >> p.visible_to_admins?
  => false

  >> p.visible_to_members?
  => true

  >> p.visible_to_friends
  => true

  >> p.visible_to_admins_and_members?
  => false

  >> p.visible_to_members_and_friends?
  => true

  >> p.visible_to_none?
  => false

  >> p.visible_to_all?
  => false

  >> p.visible_to_admins = true
  => true

  >> p.visible_to_admins_and_members_and_friends?
  => true

  >> p.visible_to_members_and_admins = false
  => false

  >> p.visible_to_flags
  => [:friends]

  >> p.save
  => #<Post id: 1, title: nil, body: nil, visible_to: 4, ...>

  >> Post.all(:conditions => { :visible_to => Post.mask_visible_to(:admins, :members) })
  =>[#<Post ...>, #<Post ...>, ...]



== Installation

Flags Column v0.4 and above is compatible with Rails3 only, and the gem
is {hosted on RubyGems.org}[http://rubygems.org/gems/flags_column].

Simply add Flags Column to your Gemfile and bundle it up:

  gem "flags_column", "~> 0.4.0"




== Download

The latest version of Flags Column can be found at
http://github.com/m4n/flags_column

Documentation can be generated from its distribution directory with the
following command.

  % [sudo] rake rdoc

Tests can be executed from its distribution directory with the
following command.

  % [sudo] rake spec



== Hacking

The Flags Column project is {hosted on Github}[http://github.com/m4n/flags_column].
Pull requests are welcome.



== Bugs

Please report bugs on the {Github issue tracker}[http://github.com/m4n/flags_column/issues]
for this project.



== License

Flags Column is released under the MIT license.



== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Martin Andert

